[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We now are gonna
transition in to a discussion of
object-orienting which is our
next major thing in Java Script.
So, we've spent the majority of the day so
far talking about scope and
closures then this key word.
Now we're going to transition in to
a discussion of object-orienting,
which is the other major area of
JavaScript that has a lot of confusion,
a lot of complexity to it.
We're gonna try to rip
away all that complexity.
I will give you the fair warning
that where we're headed,
what I'm about to teach you over
the next hour, or hour and a half or so
with this object-orienting stuff,
is significantly divergent from
what the vast majority of the JavaScript
community believes about the language.
This is my own personal take on how I
think it's a much better way of thinking
about JavaScript, but it requires you to
actually have a very different mindset.
Because you come to the language most
likely with the assumptions about
the way classes work and you try to
make Java Script work with classes and
the punchline is that we're headed
towards me teaching you that there
are no such thing as
classes in Java Script.
And that we have to have a very different,
not just a different syntax but a very
different design pattern for our software,
and that's where we're headed, okay.
So, we're gonna first, I was gonna
talk about these common OO patterns.
There's a couple of slides there where
I show off the Singleton pattern,
the Observer pattern.
They probably speak for themselves so
just in the interests of time I'll
probably skip over those slides, and
we'll go right into our discussion
of the prototype mechanism.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
I'll skip over a couple of these.
If there are any questions and
we have some time at the end I can go back
and answer any questions you may have.
But just kind of showing some
ways that you might implement
common design patterns
with JavaScript code.
All right, so any discussion about
object orienting in JavaScript requires
us to discuss the prototype mechanism.
Okay?
[COUGH] Every single object,
when it is constructed,
it's built by constructor function.
And really, to be most accurate,
it would accurate to say that
it's built by a constructor call.
And I already showed you how that works.
Remember, when we call new with
the function, it creates an object.
That's not the same thing
as instantiating a class,
it's just that it constructs objects.
As a matter of fact I would
push back on nearly two or
three decades worth or precedent.
The fact that we have
languages like C++ and
Java that are called object oriented,
those are kind of a misnomer because those
languages should have been
called class oriented.
In fact, there's only two languages today,
right now, and
one of them you know about, JavaScript.
The other one,
you may not have even ever heard of.
That language is Lua.
Those are maybe the only two
languages in existence today which
actually deserve the moniker object
oriented, cuz they're the only languages
where you can actually create
an object without a class.
And all the other languages
are all about classes and
classes getting instantiated in objects.
Unfortunately, that ship has long since
sailed, so we can't really do away with
that object-oriented moniker, but it's
an inaccurate term for what's happening.
Because these constructors in JavaScript,
they're not building from classes, they're
just creating objects out of thin air.
But every single object that gets built,
gets built by calling one of these
constructor calls,
either directly or indirectly.
And each time one of those constructors
is called a brand new object is created.
So it lends itself to you thinking
that there's an instance happening,
when in reality it's not
actually an instance.
[COUGH] It's often said that
a constructor makes an object based on,
that constructor's prototype,
and it is that phrase, based on,
that I take most objection to.
Because the phrase,
based on, begins to imply something about
the language that's not actually true.
It's something is very true in all the
other class oriented languages that you're
aware of.
C++ and Java and All those other ones,
but it's not true of JavaScript.
Based on implies that we take the
prototype and we stamp out a copy of it.
That's the way it works in
class-oriented languages,
when you have a parent class, and
you instantiate that parent class,
there's a copy of the behavior
of the class into the instance.
And once the two have been separated,
there's no more relationship
between the two.
I have an instance that was
a copy of a parent, but
that's not what happens in JavaScript.
So the phrase based on really
leads us down the wrong path.
So I would say it's more appropriate to
say that a constructor makes an object
that is linked to
the constructor's prototype.
And there are people that will say
these are one and the same and
I would push back and say these
are fundamentally different mechanisms.
Okay.
So what do we mean by linked to?
You might remember when I
discussed the new keyword.
I talked to you about those four steps and
I told you there was 0.2 that it was
the things that it did was
that it linked to an object.
And I said put an asterisk there
because we're gonna come back.
Now we're gonna talk about
what that linkage means.
What do we mean that a constructor is
making an object link to some other
prototype object?
What does that really mean?